Week 2 - Relational Database Design


Relational Models
    Data Modeling is just a simple method of describing data or information

Let's break down few key points

1. Formats ans structure of data storage:
    This involves designing how data will be organized and stored.

2. Operations on Data:
    Data models also defines operations like selecting data from queries, updating it or deleting the data.

3. Constraints & Rules:
    Constraints & rules are very important in data integrity which helps to prevent data from inconsistencies and errors.

Relational Data Model:
    By defining relationship between various data points and separates data to removes inefficiencies.

In Relational model data is represented by a series of two dimensional table which are also called relations.
Every table have columns and rows where columns represents attributes or properties of the entity and rows are called tuples, each row corresponds to a single instant or record of the entity representing columns.


Keys:
    Keys are one of the most important functions of database for processing querying and manipulating data.
    Keys is a way to uniquely identify each and every row or in table.

Let's Summarize different types of keys use in database

1. Candidate Key:
    A candidate key is like a special tag use or a combination of combination of tag each row in a table. It's what make each row unique, So we can easily sort out data from table.

2. Primary Key:
    A primary key is like the special tag we pick from all the possible tags for each things in a tables.
    It's the most important tag because it what makes sure we can find one things easily and know its unique. Every table can only have one primary key.

3. Composite Key:
    A Composite key is like having  special tag which have more than one detail.
    The uniqueness comes from the unique combination of values. It's like having a unique combination code made by combination different pieces of information.

4. surrogate Key: 
     A surrogate key is an artificial field added to serve as the primary key.
     It is used when a composite key is complex or there is no appropriate natural key available.

5. Foreign Key:
    A foreign Key is a Constraints applied to a table defining the relationship between teo tables.
    Foreign key in one table is usually linked to the primary key in another table.